Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
[rock music playing]
[panting]
[woman] My dad came
home once. drunk...
...and told my mom
that he had been fired.
like it was a joke.
But that was just kind
of the way my dad was.
you know. it wasn't
really his fault. really.
Go on.
She started screaming at him.
Telling him that he
wasn't a real man.
and that she couldn't
be the only breadwinner.
And then she kicked him out.
Kind of like she'd been
looking for a reason
to kick him out. actually.
How'd your father react?
[sighs] He said that he
was taking me with him.
That he wasn't going to
let me turn out like her.
So he came in my room.
and he was bending over...
...uh. when she did it.
- When she shot him.
- Yes.
In the head.
with a gun that he used to
keep in his bedside drawer.
And you were how old?
Six.
I was six.
- [sighs]
- [pen scratching]
Have you ever gone
to visit your mother?
No.
* I really don't mind
* Walking in the rain
* But if you hold my hands
up close *
* You'll see a different
shade of pain *
* And I really don't mind
* And I really
don't give a... *
* Put your head
upon my shoulder *
* Look ahead and take your
feet up off the ground *
* And I really don't mind
* And I really
don't give a... *
* Your head upon my shoulder
* Look ahead take your feet up
off the ground *
[panting]
[laughing]
[both gasping. panting]
Remember our
first run up here?
[laughs] Of course.
It was right after
your first deployment.
[laughing] Yeah.
Uh...
Uh. Suzanne...
You are. uh...
You are so beautiful. and...
...and strong.
and you're smart. and...
...no one knows me as well
as you know me. and...
Baby. this is really sweet. but
you're making me really nervous.
Uh...
[clears throat]
[nervous sigh]
Will you marry me?
I don't know what to say.
"Yes" would be a really
good thing to say... right now.
I can't.
I'm sorry. will you just...
Will you stand up please?
I just wasn't expecting this.
I... [clears throat]
Baby. I love you.
I just have some things
that I need to work out
before I can commit.
you know?
No. I... I'm committed.
I'm committed.
I just... before I can
commit to this.
Yeah. All right.
Logan. will you just...
um...
What do you think's
gonna happen. Suzanne?
I mean. what
are you afraid of?
You know what
I'm afraid of!
I just... I'm just not ready.
I can't. I can't.
[sighs]
OK. Just take this. OK?
- I don't...
- Just hold onto it. OK?
Just hang on to this.
And you can wear it
when you're ready.
OK?
[sniffling]
[indistinct chatter]
[man] Hey. Jamie. wait up!
Oh. I think things
may have changed
since I got engaged.
in about. oh. 10 BC.
but I thought that the
engagement ring was supposed
to go on the finger.
[clears throat] He says
that I need to face my fears.
Ah. well. he's right.
That's easier said than done
when what you fear lives
inside of you.
Mmm... One could argue that
the object of everyone's fear
lives inside them.
No thank you.
So. is that my
object of fear?
This? No. no. no.
No. this... is a test.
And what's important
are not the results.
What's important is what
you do with the results.
Suzanne. what's ever
inside this envelope...
[chuckles] ...shouldn't
keep you from living your life.
Who would want
to marry someone with a
predisposition for murder?
Well. apparently.
Logan would.
That's because he
doesn't understand.
So... [laughs]
I see. what this is.
is maybe the world's most
intellectually rigorous case
of cold feet.
I'm sure that it is.
I wonder if we can test
for it empirically?
All right. Suzanne. come on.
You have worked so hard.
You've helped so many people
find their way to happiness.
I just want to make sure you
find some for yourself.
- Yeah. OK.
- Oh. wait!
Almost forgot to tell you.
I need your classroom today.
205. for a final.
You're gonna have to move
your section to the science
library classroom.
OK. that's fine.
And thank you for this.
- My pleasure.
- [door shuts]
- Thanks. Julie.
- Thanks.
Oh. Lieutenant Olsen.
Good to see you.
The pleasure's all mine.
Caroline.
Would you like your usual?
- Yeah. please.
- Of course.
Hey. it's Julie. right?
- Hey. Kellen.
- Hey.
[whispers] Jocks!
Uh... Don't you have class
in a few minutes?
Did you memorize my schedule?
No. I just... you know.
I don't normally
see your pretty face
on a Wednesday
since you went
back to school.
Well. you're my last customer.
lieutenant.
It's... it's Michael.
And thank you for. uh...
waiting for me.
Are you giving me
your number. Michael?
- [laughs]
- Uh... Yeah. uh. yeah.
I mean. you know.
in case you need...
assistance some time.
- [tires screeching]
- [crashing]
[groans]
- Hey. you OK?
- Yeah. I'm fine.
Here. get up. Get up.
What's your name?
Ooh! Aah!
Uh. it's Jeremy.
Jeremy.
are you an idiot?
That guy almost hit me!
You're riding on
the wrong side of the road!
Look. I almost just got
hit by a car. and you...
you're yelling at me?
You're texting.
- Oh come on. man!
- It's lieutenant.
Come on. lieutenant...
I'm already late to class.
now what.
are you gonna give me a ticket
for texting while cycling?
- Jeremy?
- Do you know this clown?
He's in my criminal brain
class. What did he do?
He almost got hit
by a car.
Well. shouldn't you be
talking to the driver?
Exactly!
Think you could just
let him off with a warning?
Free latte tomorrow?
Jeremy... wear
a helmet next time.
Thank you.
That was awesome.
Thank you so much.
What is it with you teenagers?
- Hey. I'm 20.
- Whatever.
What I mean is.
you are so smart in class.
and then as soon
as you leave. you start
acting like total morons.
I don't know. maybe it's
something to do with that
old orbitofrontal cortex?
- Is that what it is?
- Oh. someone's been
doing his homework.
- Hot for teacher. huh?
- Oh...
- How did you know?
- [laughs] Please.
- Is it that obvious?
- Please!
Sorry about the change of venue.
I'm glad you all could find us.
OK. um... So. last week.
we were talking about
the orbitofrontal cortex.
So who can guess which
of these two brains is
that of a criminal?
- Yes?
- The one on the left.
- Why?
- Well. there's less activity
in the orbitofrontal cortex.
Which means?
The subject is not exhibiting.
um. an empathetic response?
And why is that
significant?
- Kellen?
- Um...
I think... I think she
pretty much got it.
So maybe a little more
note-taking and less
social networking?
- Sorry.
- OK. Why is that significant?
- Julie?
- The orbitofrontal cortex
is. uh. part of the brain
that controls the conscience
- and ethical decision-making.
- [Suzanne] Right.
- Oh. OK.
- [Suzanne] Good.
So let's say.
for the sake of argument.
that I was to commit
a violent crime...
Neither a PET brain scan nor a
genetic test would be conducted
to determine how much
time I would spend in jail.
Instead. there's a
chance that I would be given
a different sort of evaluation.
The Psychopathy Test. or
Psychopathic Traits Evaluation.
It's a simple list of traits
possessed by most psychopaths.
scored on a number system.
OK. it's a bit controversial.
but what's great
is that this test is
actually considered
one of the most important
factors in determining
whether or not
a person has psychopathy.
and its results
have a lot of weight
with parole boards.
[girls laughing]
[woman] Hannah. are you
going back to the dorm?
So a score of 30 or more
can mean the difference
between a few years
or life in prison.
So let's go around the table.
and we'll just start at the top.
and we'll go through the list.
- Caroline.
- "Inflated ego."
"Mythomania or
compulsive lying."
"Little or no compassion
or guilt."
Hey!
"Unrealistic goal setting."
- [quietly] What's up?
- Number five.
Yeah. what's up?
Oh! Um... "Poor social
interactions or controls."
[scoffs]
[whispers] Pop!
"Shallow emotional
responsiveness."
"Childhood behavioral
difficulties."
- "Inability..."
- "Inability to
accept fault or blame."
OK.
What? Why is
everyone looking at me?
[people screaming]
- Whoa. what was that?!
- [gunshots]
- What is that?
- That was a gun.
[exclaims] Oh. no!
Calm down.
- Is that what I think it is?
- [woman] That was a gun.
Oh. no.
- [distant bell clanging]
- Professor Hollander!
We need to block the door
and prevent anyone
- from getting in.
- Get the table.
Just move it right
up against the door.
[whimpering]
Please don't shoot.
Can we talk?
- What do you want?
- [gun clicks]
What do you want?
Can you let them go. please?
Please let them go?
You two. go.
- [indistinct chatter]
- Now! Go!
[woman] Oh. my God!
[door shuts]
- Thank you.
- Where's Suzanne Hollander?
[Suzanne] And how did
that make you feel?
Did it make you angry?
[clears throat]
Yeah. I guess so.
Is that why you killed
your mother's cat?
What?
Your mother's cat.
that you smothered.
Is that why you killed it?
I guess so.
And what does that mean?
- What does what mean?
- "I guess so."
It would just be helpful
for me to understand.
Did you kill the cat
because you were angry?
Did you...
did you want revenge?
She loved that cat more
than she loved me.
And what does that mean?
What does "love" mean?
[stammering] I don't know.
But Connor. you need
to understand that love
is something that
two people feel together.
You know. it might be harder
for you to fall in love...
It's not me that has
the hard time falling in love.
OK.
But it might be harder
for you to fall in love
until you believe that
you are worthy of that
love from someone else.
Until you choose to open
yourself up completely.
I mean. love is...
Love is hard.
And it takes compromise.
You will fully
understand that someday.
- Do you?
- I'm sorry. do I what?
Do you understand what love is?
- [phone beeps]
- "Campus on lockdown.
gunman on the loose."
- I got the same text.
- It says there's only one?
Uh. it says one gunman.
described as dark hair.
twenty-something male.
thin build. approximately
five foot ten.
- I don't...
- [gunshots]
[shrieks] He's coming!
- [Jeremy grunting]
- OK. OK. you guys.
we need to get to the
back of the classroom.
and get to a lower level.
Go! Get...
Jeremy. look.
I know how you're feeling.
no time to panic...
- OK. OK.
- [distant siren wailing]
- What...
- What happened?
- Help me get him up.
- Oh. my gosh. what happened?
[grunting] Let's go. Move.
- [overlapping chatter]
- Go. go. go!
- OK. go!
- Go!
[sirens approaching]
[people shouting. screaming]
- [woman sobbing]
- [rattles door]
[horn blasting]
[siren wailing]
[man] Keep going!
- Hey. Jen. what's the status?
- I just spoke to campus police.
They've sent a text alert
to every student on campus.
but they need to go around
and make sure that everyone's
staying in their dorms.
OK. good. How many
are still in there?
This is every class scheduled
to be in the science center
when the shooting started.
Could be as many as 25
still unaccounted for.
Caroline... [sighs] OK.
Go to where they set up
triage. find out who
from this list is still inside.
If there is hostages. we need
to find out how many. Go.
Wait. Jen.
What's the head count?
Reports are pretty vague.
but we think
maybe five are dead.
at least another
ten injured.
Is he just shooting randomly?
I mean. what are...
what's going on here?
It's strange. All the witnesses
said it was almost like
he was looking for someone.
All right. get out of here.
[man] Please. just calm down.
[woman on TV] This is Suzanne
Block. reporting on the scene
where panic has erupted due
to a gunman firing shots
on the campus of nearby
Gambles College.
An unknown number of victims
have been injured
and local emergency units
have rushed to the scene
to assess what witnesses
have confirmed
to be a hostage situation
here inside the school.
Just go to the back.
Keep going.
Careful. careful.
Go to the back.
All the way
to the back. come on.
[indistinct chatter]
- You guys. it's fine.
Keep going.
- Shh!
[Suzanne] OK. you guys split up.
Go to different sides.
Different sides.
- Stay down. stay down.
- [Jeremy groaning]
There. OK.
- [grunts]
- All right.
You know... [coughs]
...I always had a huge
crush on you. [groans]
Never thought you'd actually
be taking my shirt off. though.
There's no cell service
down here.
[crying] I can't die
like this! I've got kids!
I need. like. a piece of
cloth or something to clot.
- Uh. I have a hat.
- That'll work. That'll work.
Kellen. finger.
Put your hand down.
How do we know he's not
gonna find us down here?
Because we blocked
the only entrance to
the science library. OK?
- [groans]
- There've got to be
other ways in.
We are just gonna sit
here and wait for the
police to get here. all right?
- [groans loudly]
- You're all right.
Come on. doc.
I think you do know where
Suzanne Hollander is.
- I think she's escaped...
- No. no one can escape.
I've locked us all in.
Now. where is she?
[cell phone buzzing]
How long have you
had this thing?
"Are you all right?
There was a shooting
at Gambles College."
Yadda. yadda. yadda.
Yadda. yadda...
Suzanne Hollander.
"Thanks for our little chat.
I'll be happy to use
the science library."
Thanks. doc.
Wait. where are you going?
Where are you going?!
[door opens]
[sighs]
[door shuts]
[Connor] I think
you've got some
mommy issues of your own.
and that's the reason
you became a shrink.
I'm not a shrink.
I'm a doctor.
and I'm in research.
Connor. there's
a big difference.
All right. but that
doesn't answer my question.
You have mommy issues.
don't you?
What makes you say that?
No pictures of your mom and dad.
Why?
So. what's your issue
with your parents?
[clears throat]
- What do you want to
be when you grow up?
- Come on...
Don't change the subject.
OK. how about this?
A little quid pro quo.
Do you know what that means?
Do you I look stupid to you?
No... you do not look stupid.
All right. fine.
quid pro quo.
Tell me something
about your mother.
OK. I will admit
that I have...
issues with my parents.
I knew it.
My issue. Connor. is that
I didn't really have them.
I grew up in the system.
- The system?
- Foster care.
I bounced around a lot.
The longest I ever stayed
with a family was one year.
Your turn.
What do you want to do
when you graduate?
I want to teach.
You want to teach?
Do you think that's
something you'd be good at?
No. no. no. I don't
want to be a teacher.
They don't teach.
They indoctrinate.
I want to...
I want to really
teach people something.
You guys. we've got
to keep moving. OK?
We're like sitting
ducks down here.
Jeremy's dying over here!
Can we give him a minute?
Yeah. and I don't
want to end up like him!
You guys.
nobody is dying!
Come on!
Jeremy. I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. OK? We're gonna
get you out. I promise.
but that's not gonna
happen if we're just
sitting in the boiler room!
- Do you have a better plan?
- [sighs]
This is Olsen.
Put him through.
Yeah. Lieutenant Olsen.
Who am I speaking to?
All right. I need you
to listen very carefully.
Lieutenant Olsen.
I have hostages.
I may or may not
kill some of them.
But if I see a single
cop come in here.
I'm killing all of them.
- You understand?
- Yes. it's clear.
Uh. tell me your name.
Why should I?
So. uh. we can have
a civil conversation.
I'd like to know
who I'm speaking to.
I have no interest in having
a civil conversation with you.
OK. that's fine. That's fine.
you have all the power.
Just thought maybe we
could. you know. come to an
understanding or something.
[laughs] I know
I have all the power.
So if I see a single cop
come in here.
the blood's on your hands.
You understand that?
Yes. I understand.
Good.
- [crying]
- [Suzanne] Bonnie...
Bonnie!
I know that this is hard.
But you need to be
strong and stay calm. OK?
All right. one of us needs
to go upstairs and see if
we can get any cell service.
See if we can call for help.
- That's a good idea. Right?
- Yeah... yeah. I agree.
I mean. if you're
willing. Kellen...
- [Suzanne] You guys. stop it!
- [Jeremy groaning]
Hey... No one is going
anywhere. all right?
You're my responsibility.
I can't allow it.
It's too risky. OK?
We're just gonna stay
here and wait for the police.
All right?
Jen. who just put that call
through? Who was that from?
I don't know. dispatch just said
it was related to the shooting.
- That was the shooter.
- You made contact?
No. he made contact.
He's got hostages.
So. what are we going to do?
Uh... I don't know. um...
All right. we gotta find a
place where we can set up shop.
You know. somewhere
we can get. uh...
You know. like a classroom
or something. you know.
Figure out a plan.
We're setting up a
triage area and a command
center in the cafeteria.
OK. good. I'll
look at these.
And in the meantime.
you go to campus security.
Get me any footage of any
security anywhere on campus.
OK? And where's
my SWAT team?
They say they're still
about 45 minutes out.
What? Are you kidding me?
- Go get 'em now! Go!
- Yes. sir.
Geez. Damn. we are
in the sticks!
Hey. you the officer
in charge?
Uh. yeah. Uh...
What. are you FBI?
Not exactly.
I need to get in here.
Uh. sorry. no one gets...
Who are you?
Gunnery Sergeant Logan
Garrison. US Marine Corps.
Yeah? Where did you come from?
That doesn't matter.
I saw this on TV.
We have a
hostage situation...
How many people you
still got in there?
- Ten. maybe more.
- What the hell
are you doing?
- Where's your SWAT team?
You got a negotiator?
- They're still 45 minutes out.
You don't got 45 minutes!
Those people will
be dead by then!
They're not gonna be...
Excuse me. do you mind...
Yes. they will be dead
by then and you know it!
OK. listen... I've done
two tours in Afghanistan.
OK. I've been through
hostage negotiation.
I trained special ops.
I'm the best option
you've got right now.
Forget it.
Nobody goes in.
All right. hey...
Do you have someone
special in your life?
What's that got to do
with anything?
'Cause the woman I love
is in that building right now.
OK. I'm not going to
stand by and wait for some
nut job to destroy my life.
I'm going in there.
whether you let me or not.
Come on.
Try switching spots with me.
You're fine. You're fine.
You got him? OK.
[Connor] have you always
had a thing for psychos?
What makes you think I
have a thing for psychos?
Well. we go overtime
every single week.
I don't have a
thing for psychos.
Nor do I have a thing for you.
I'm trying to learn
about you so I can help you.
Which is why I really need you
to talk about Thanksgiving.
I don't want to talk
about that.
We need to talk about
what happened with your mom.
Talk about Thanksgiving
in general.
Anything that you can remember.
want to talk about...
Well. from the moment
I got off the plane.
she set in on me. you know.
like the clothes I was wearing.
the music I listened to.
my grades. everything.
- Go on.
- Well. Thanksgiving
was the same as usual.
We went to my aunt's house.
the turkey was dry.
everyone was sappy about
what they were thankful for...
And what were you thankful for?
Uh...
You.
[Logan] Any luck
with the cell phones?
No. they go right
to voice mail.
Seems like they don't
have any reception.
Must be underground.
which means they're
on the cellar level
or in the steam tunnels.
- You alumni?
- Yeah. Class of '92.
I spent a lot of time
in those tunnels.
[phone ringing]
Good. they got this set up.
Jen. thank you very much.
The steam tunnels connect most
of the campus. but only some
of them are passable.
Old chemistry lab connects
to the new science center
through the library.
That's original structure.
Isn't there some way to the
tunnels through the lower level?
No. there isn't. The only way
in and out of these tunnels
is from the stairwell
on the ground level.
here and here.
- Lieutenant. didn't you say
the shooter called you?
- Yeah.
- Well. if he has hostages.
and none of them have cell
service. how did he call you?
- Maybe he's bluffing.
- Maybe he hasn't
got to 'em yet.
I gotta get down there
before he does.
Whoa. whoa...
Jen. gimme your radio.
- In case you need backup.
- Thanks.
Got a weapon?
[sighs] Why am I
not surprised?
[Caroline] That's it.
I'm leaving.
Who's coming?
- Fine.
- Caroline. no. it's not...
Don't boss me around. OK?
I'm not some 20-year-old kid.
- [whispering] No. don't...
- I'm going for help.
No. Caroline. stop!
[whispering]
Why do we have to...
[whispering] You guys stay.
let her go.
[whimpering]
You know. 20 years on the job...
...I never once discharged
my firearm. Not once.
[phone ringing]
And then this happens
in our little town.
I know.
[cell phone beeps]
We have access to the security
cameras in the library.
I'm signing on now.
Lieutenant. look!
Give that to Leanne.
[cell phone ringing]
That's her.
- Caroline?
- Michael?
Michael. can you hear me?
It's Caroline!
- Caroline. you OK?
- I'm... I'm trapped
in the library.
He's locked us in!
Calm down. It's gonna be OK.
- Help is on the way.
- I couldn't just sit
and wait anymore.
I know. I'm looking
at you right now.
I'm looking at
the security cam.
Now. listen... how many people
are still in there?
Um... five that I know of.
Listen to me.
Jeremy's been shot.
- [clattering]
- [gasps]
[whispering] I think
someone's coming!
You have to find
a place to hide.
Right now. Caroline.
right now! OK?
Please. just find a place
where you can be quiet. OK?
What is this?
What's going on? What is this?
- I don't know.
we must've lost power.
- Fix it!
- Caroline? You OK?
- [door opening]
He... he's coming.
Logan. do you copy?
Would somebody please tell me
what's going on in there?!
[whimpers. sobs]
- Shh.
- [muffled gasp]
Be very quiet.
I'm here to help.
I'm gonna get you out. You
just can't make a sound. OK?
Shh.
There are five others
still in the boiler room.
- Suzanne Hollander?
- Yes. I'm in her class.
Wait. A boy is injured.
Jeremy Waters.
He got shot.
OK.
[Caroline screams]
I said no cops!
Caroline...
Oh. I never should
have let her go!
[gun clicking]
I gotta go see if
I can help her...
No. no. you can't.
He has guns. You don't.
I can't let him hurt
somebody because of me.
Wait. what do you mean.
"because of you?"
Do you mind if we
talk about the incident?
Uh. it was... It was the Friday
after Thanksgiving.
And I was just watching TV. some
cop show marathon or something.
Minding my own business.
when she busts in on me
and just starts laying
into me again. you know like.
"Shouldn't you be out?
Why don't you hang out
with the other kids?
Don't you have friends
from high school you can visit?"
And I try to tell her that
all the kids that I went to
high school with are idiots.
Like. it's just how I feel.
And...
...she thumps me
with a magazine!
Rolls up a magazine
and hits me with it.
like... like... like
I'm some kind of animal.
Like... like I'm
her stupid cat.
And then what happened?
I got up.
She starts backing up
like she's scared of me
or something.
And... and I say...
"If you want to hit me.
you should just go
ahead and do it."
And did she?
No. she backed up
into an end table.
and. um...
knocked over a lamp.
But you kept walking
toward her?
Yeah. she... she. like.
tried to pick the lamp up.
but I grabbed
hold of her...
[clears throat]
...and I said to her.
"If you want to hit me. you
should just go ahead and do it."
We have to move. OK?
Jeremy. if I help you.
can you walk?
- Yeah. I think so.
- OK. Ready?
[both] One. two. three...
[all grunting]
- Go.
- [Jeremy grunting]
Thank you.
Michael... thank you.
- I was so scared.
- Don't thank me. thank Logan.
Thank you so much.
- Jeremy...
- We're doing all we can.
We're trying to get somebody
in there now. Is...
I'm sorry. it's... it's him.
It's the shooter.
Ken. can you
take care of her. please?
Ma'am. this way.
This is Olsen.
I told you not to send
any cops in here.
and that's specifically
what you did!
I don't know what
you're talking about.
- Don't lie to me.
- Well. I think you lied to me.
I don't think you
have any more hostages.
Really? You really
want to be that cavalier
about innocent people's lives?
[phone clatters]
[Bonnie] What are
you doing? Go!
Is it locked?
[Suzanne] You guys.
head to the steam tunnels.
Steam tunnels. Straight back.
Straight back.
It's the door that says
"don't enter."
[Jeremy groaning]
Suzanne.
So she smacked me.
I say. "Hit me again."
So she says she's
gonna call the cops.
I say. "Hit me again or
I'll give you something
to call the cops about."
And did you?
Did you hit your mother?
Did you hit her?
[crying] I didn't mean to.
I'm not...
I'm not crazy. am I?
I... I can be fixed.
I can change. right?
Connor. I'm gonna
need you to back up.
Are you scared of me?
Professor! Professor.
come on. let's go!
Come on!
Open the door!
Do you know him?
He was a former research
subject of mine.
- So all of this
is about you?
- [pounding on door]
OK. so how would you like
to come in next Thursday.
like at 11:00?
I feel so weird.
I tell you all about myself
in here. and you don't tell
me anything about you.
OK. OK.
What do you want to know?
I want to know how it felt to
watch your mom kill your father.
I'm sorry. how did you...
how did you know that?
It's the digital age.
Suzanne.
Everything you need to know
is just a few keystrokes away.
I think that you need to go.
No. that's not fair.
We had an agreement.
Quid pro quo. You can't cheat
on your end of the deal.
Connor. you're
crossing a line.
No. I'm just asking.
I just want to know.
like how it felt
to watch your mom shoot
your father in the head.
I mean. like. is it true
that people defecate
when they get shot?
Did your father crap himself
when your mom shot him?
He did. didn't he?
So it wasn't just his blood
you were covered in. it was...
- You need to leave right now.
- It was his... What?
- Get out!
- I'm just...
I'll tell them you were
physically abusive.
Fine! Connor. I don't care!
Don't you get it. Suzanne?
You're just like me.
We both have crazy moms.
So you... you think that your
mother is crazy like mine?
No. no. no. I think
you're crazy like me.
So our moms gotta be
kinda similar. right?
I never want
to see you again.
You need to go.
Oh. you can't
kick me out like that.
Get out! Now!
You'll see me again.
[scoffs]
How does it feel. Suzanne?
To know that it's because of you
that all these people are dead?
- What did you do?
- [Jeremy] She didn't
do anything!
He's a psychopath.
- Haven't you been listening...
- Stop arguing. you guys.
We have to get
out of here. all right?
We need to get
Jeremy out of here.
He's losing a lot of blood.
Come on. put your arm around me.
Let's go.
Come on.
[Julie] Come on. keep going.
[exclaims]
Keep walking.
Go. go. Go!
Give me one more push.
all right?
Listen to me. You gotta
work with us. all right?
We're almost there. Ready?
You're gonna be fine.
- Ready?
- [both] One. two three!
- [both gasping]
- Don't shoot!
It's OK. I'm not gonna shoot.
I'm here to help.
Who's that?
Who's down there?
- [Suzanne] Logan!
- Suzanne. do you need help?
Yeah!
- You OK. Suzanne?
- Yeah. I'm fine. babe.
We need help! Please!
- How many are left inside?
- According to Suzanne.
that's it.
Everybody's accounted for.
Now we just gotta wait
for the SWAT to show up
and get Connor out.
- Who's Connor?
- Connor Dryer.
He's the shooter.
One of Suzanne's
former students.
[Michael] That explains a lot.
- Yeah.
- [cell phone rings]
This is him.
Hello. Connor.
She told you my name.
didn't she?
Yeah. she did.
But it doesn't matter.
Game over.
There's no more hostages.
Oh. really?
Did you hear that. professor?
No more hostages.
What... Connor.
who are you speaking with?
- [gunshot on speaker phone]
- [gasps]
[Michael] Uh... Connor.
what was that?
Is someone
inside with you?
Suzanne?
Are you there?
- It's me. Dr. Egan.
- He has Robert.
The next shot won't miss.
Connor. Connor. what do we have
to do to bring this to an end?
- What do you want?
- I want Suzanne Hollander
in the library in ten minutes.
or Dr. Egan dies.
[machine beeping]
[down-tempo rock playing]
[Bonnie] Ms. Hollander?
It's Jeremy. He...
[whispering] I'm so sorry.
* There'll be nothing to fear
* Insecurity is clear
* Want to just disappear
* Disappear from the world
* What a wicked world it is
* Come around. come around
* Come around
I have to go back in.
* Come around. come around
All right.
* Come around
* Impossible
* See we wait for the world
* Is it at all sensible?
* You should be able...
[indistinct chatter]
[sobbing]
[distant siren wailing]
- [Jen] What are they doing?
- They're heading
into the tunnel.
I'm gonna be listening. OK?
- What if he finds the wire?
- No. he won't.
Anything goes wrong.
just say my name and I'm in.
OK. So I'm just
gonna talk to him
- and I'm gonna get him
to let Robert go.
- Yeah.
- OK.
- Anything happens to me...
Nothing can happen to you.
Promise me.
OK. let's go.
[Robert] Connor... she was
very upset when things didn't
work out between you two.
[Connor sighs]
[exhales]
- She told you that?
- Yes. she did.
She wanted to help you.
And. of course. you were
a very big help to her.
I can't remember
another time where she
talked so highly about.
she cared so deeply
about a research subject.
- Then why did she leave me?
- No. no. no...
No. as I recall it. it was you
who made it impossible for
her to continue to see you.
Well. you remember
the coffee shop. Connor.
You tracked her down.
You followed her there. right?
Connor. what
are you doing here?
Why won't you
return my calls?
This is not the time
or the place.
It's a public place.
I'm allowed
to drink coffee.
[whispers] We need to talk.
It is completely
inappropriate that you're here.
Are you writing
something about me?
Of course not.
You want to talk?
Fine. let's talk.
Let's talk about all the
letters you've been sending me.
Yeah. yeah.
let's talk about them.
And the e-mails.
and the phone calls...
- You wouldn't respond to me.
- Because you need to stop.
You told me love
is a choice.
I am not an option.
I can't choose who I love.
You don't love me.
How do you know?
Because it's called
transference...
Just because there's
a fancy word for it
- doesn't make it not real!
- [smacks table]
OK. OK...
Did your boyfriend
find the letters?
He's a big Marine. right?
Does he wanna beat me up?
You need to stop.
Right now.
I can't.
No one's ever paid attention
to me before. cared about me.
Connor. it is my job to care.
- So you're a whore.
- What?
You get paid to pretend
like you care.
To feign intimacy.
That makes you a whore.
I do not need
to listen to this.
No. all right. all right.
- I'll stop sending letters.
- Do you promise?
What. are you 12?
You will speak to me
with respect. Connor.
You sound like my mother.
Can you just...?
Connor. please.
Just leave me alone.
You just... you look
so beautiful when
you're this angry.
No!
You see.
whores don't say no.
Don't you...
If you ever come near me again.
I will call the police!
Do you hear me. Connor?
Leave me alone!
Suzanne!
Why can't you love me?
Because you are
unlovable. Connor.
Just like your mother said.
[door shuts]
[Robert] But she
regretted that. Connor.
She said it... [sighs]
...and she regretted it
the minute she said it.
She said it because she's
human. she made a mistake.
That's what humans do.
they make mistakes.
She told you about that?
- About what she said to me?
- Yeah. she told me
all about it.
But she needed you
to leave her alone.
You were scaring her.
She would've said
anything at that point.
I scared her?
Yeah. But is
that what you want?
I mean. you
want to scare her?
Because I think
you've succeeded at that.
Mm-mm.
[sniffles]
I want her to love me.
Connor... love can't
be won through fear.
[sobs]
You're not reporting me?
I could be fired for this.
Well. you could. but I think
that would be a significant
loss to this institution
and to the scientific community
and I'm not gonna do it.
It's not the first time
that I've lost control. though.
- [sighs]
- It's like a piece
of me that just...
...shuts off.
And I don't know why.
I... I got this.
This is not conclusive.
and you know that.
Right.
So I want you to give me
the Psychopathy Test. also.
I just have to know.
Suzanne. look...
This is the kind of psychosis
that makes the world go round.
OK? There is a
huge preponderance of
psychopathic personalities
in the political
and the business
elite of this country!
I mean. how do you
think they get things done?
Lack of empathy.
That doesn't make
me feel any better.
I... Will you please
just run the test?
Of course.
[gun cocks]
Connor?
You armed?
No.
Can I check?
Yes.
[breath shuddering]
[voice trembling]
I missed you. Suzanne.
It's... it's good
to see you again.
Can he go? [clears throat]
Yeah. sure.
[cutting tape]
See ya later. doc.
Connor. Remember
what we talked about.
Go. please.
So I'm here.
[clears throat]
- What did you want to talk...
- You told me love
is a choice. right?
I mean. 'cause if you could.
you probably wouldn't have
loved your father. right?
- What?
- It would have made
it easier for you...
...when your
mother killed him.
What... what are
you talking about?
And then you found Dr. Egan.
He became like a
father to you. right?
Connor...
And I couldn't imagine
losing a father twice.
[Suzanne whimpering]
Connor...
- Please. don't...
- You don't love me.
But if you won't love me...
[Suzanne sobbing] Connor...
...then you'll fear me.
Connor!
[Robert] Tell me more
about your mother.
Uh. more about
that night. or...?
Just whatever you
remember about her.
Mm...
She was very smart.
Meticulous.
She used to read the paper
from cover to cover every day.
- And your dad?
- He read it. too.
He just. um...
He thought that the paper
was something to be shared.
You know.
like a family affair.
Everyone takes a section.
reads it. reports back.
My mom didn't
think like that.
She'd get so irritated
when he'd bring it up.
you know. like.
"Why do you have to talk
about every thought that
comes into your head?"
So... that's usually
how it started.
How... how what
usually started?
The fighting.
- [shouting]
- [yelling]
Suzanne. stop.
Let him go.
[Suzanne gasping]
- Get up.
- [Suzanne yells]
See. we are just alike.
you and me.
And you're gonna have
your chance to prove it.
Just. we're not there yet.
And you must be
the fiance. right?
Logan?
You're pretty good.
Don't hurt her. OK?
I won't. As long as you
do exactly as I say.
Put the gun down.
OK. so how do you
read the paper?
Alone. I guess.
So you don't read the paper like
your mother did. cover to cover?
And when you read the paper.
what kind of stories
are you gravitated toward?
Is that relevant?
Um...
I guess I gravitate
towards stories of my...
...um. my... my area of study.
OK. What about the
science attracts you?
What kind of details
are you looking for?
What catches your eye?
I mean. I don't
think I look for myself
or that I look for things
that relate to my
specific research.
but. you know. if there's
a quote. I might read it.
but I don't think that I would
search it out. you know.
and really try to find
things about myself.
[Connor] It better be tight.
I'm gonna check.
"While the psychopath cannot
feel true empathy or love.
his inflated sense of self
worth makes him believe
that he loves any individual
who gives him the
attention he feels he deserves.
This is especially true
for those who were abused
or neglected as children.
Take. for example.
the case of Connor..."
- [cocks gun]
- What's he talking
about. Suzanne?
He's quoting my thesis paper.
I don't know how he got it.
[Connor] "Connor scored a 37
on the Psychopathy Test.
a score indicating the
inability to feel empathy.
a necessary
precondition for love.
His brain scan showed
a complete lack of activity
in his orbitofrontal cortex.
And yet Connor claimed
to be in love with me.
Thus. he translated
the indulgence of his
narcissism as love?"
- Are you kidding me?
- Connor. it's true.
What you feel for me
is not love.
You used me!
You never cared about me.
You said you did.
but you had made up
your mind about me
from the moment you met me.
just like everyone else.
You know that's not true!
Of course I cared about you!
It was my job to try
and figure you out
- so I could help you!
- Why didn't you just look
inside your own head?
You're just as
screwed up as I am.
Let's talk more
about your parents.
You said they...
they fought.
You know. I think
about that night a lot.
I dream about it. what happened.
But in my dreams. it's not
my mom shooting my father.
I'm shooting my father.
What's wrong? You don't
want your boyfriend to find out
that you have the
same biological make
up as Charles Manson?
You see that?
That is Suzanne's orbitofrontal
cortex. right there.
See that void?
You see that one?
Hey. look at me. Look at me.
I'm talking to you!
Do you see it?
- [Suzanne] Connor. stop.
- Same void.
What do you think about
your girlfriend now?
- What does it mean. Suzanne?
- She didn't want to tell you.
'cause she knew
you'd leave her.
That you wouldn't
love her anymore.
Well. I don't care.
What do you mean
you don't care?
- [Logan] Doesn't matter.
- You're not worried...
...she might go all psycho
one day and kill you
in front of your kids?
- Huh? Hey. hey. hey!
- Connor. stop it!
Just like her mother did?
Why?
Because I love her.
And some brain scan's
not gonna change that.
You can't love her.
I love her.
She's mine.
- Connor. no!
- Aah!
- That's it. That's it.
- What are you doing?
- You can't go in there.
- Somebody just got shot.
- Can't you wait?
- I gotta go in.
Please. the SWAT team
will be here any minute.
Forget it. Jen.
Forget it. OK?
When the SWAT team gets here.
if they get here...
...tell them what to do.
Jen... it's OK.
That punk has taken our town
and flipping it upside down.
I'm not gonna put
up with it anymore.
If he comes out of that
building before I do.
you take him out yourself.
- Connor. put the gun down!
- You shouldn't have done that.
Don't tell me
what I shouldn't do.
Just put the gun down!
You keep sounding
like my mother.
Do you want me to play that
role? 'Cause I can do that.
- I can do that. Stop it!
- No.
Connor. this is
about you and me.
This has nothing to do with him.
Just put it down.
No! And you can't make me!
Listen to me!
Put the gun down!
[Michael] Connor. freeze!
- Stay right there.
- It's me. it's
Lieutenant Olsen.
- I've been talking on
the phone to you. pal.
- [Suzanne yells]
[Logan] Connor!
I told you if I saw any cops.
I'd start killing hostages.
Listen. listen. Connor.
The SWAT team is on the way.
Trust me. you want to talk
to me and not them.
Pick up my bag.
I told you. if I saw cops...
- Connor. drop it!
- Shut up.
[gasping]
- [Michael] Connor...
- Whatever.
- Come on!
- [screams]
[frustrated grunt]
Jen. get a medic
in here right away.
- You got hit anywhere else?
- No. it's just the leg.
[sirens wailing]
Hey. the SWAT team is here.
Do you know where they went?
I don't know.
but Olsen followed them.
- Which way?
- Down the hall to the right.
SWAT command. do you read?
[man on radio]
SWAT command. over.
We shouldn't send
them in yet.
Look. we appreciate
all your help.
but I'm going to turn
this over to SWAT.
[man] Sergeant?
We read. over.
You've never dealt with anything
on this scale before. have you?
- No.
- OK. listen...
We got a shooter in there
who's holding my fiance
by gunpoint.
You send in SWAT.
he's gonna kill her.
Do you trust your
Lieutenant Olsen?
More than
anything in the world.
OK. OK. well. let's let him try
to defuse the situation. OK?
All right?
SWAT commander. stand down.
I repeat. stand down.
We still have an active
hostage situation.
Take a seat.
Just like old times.
So let's talk.
I'm not really
in the mood for this. Connor.
What do you want?
I want to feel comfortable.
And this is the only place
I've ever felt comfortable.
but you took that
away from me.
- You made that choice.
- No. I didn't!
You threw me out!
We're gonna have
a session. Right now!
[sniffs] Fine.
So. what do you want to ask me?
How did you. uh...
read my thesis?
Dr. Egan's the only one
who's ever seen it.
Please.
That was child's play.
You should really think
of a better password
for your laptop.
You broke into my office
and went through my things?
[Connor] You've got
quite the stash in there.
Fascinating newspaper
clippings. What was it. um...
"Mother Kills Father
in Front of Daughter."
And then there was. "Suburban
Mother Goes Murderous."
My personal favorite was
"The Bloodsoaked Baby."
[Suzanne] Stop it.
I can't
take this anymore.
If you're gonna kill me.
Connor. just do it!
All the fun would be over.
Oh. I almost forgot.
I have something of yours.
I guess. um. Dr. Egan
gave you that test
to see if you really
are a psychopath?
Wanna see the results?
Yep. Right here.
Certifiable.
Just like me.
- You're lying.
- Why would I lie?
Huh? Why?
No. look right here.
"Childhood behavior
difficulties." you got a two.
That's the same thing I got.
Um. "Shallow emotional
responsiveness."
You a one.
I got a two on that one.
- Please. just stop.
- Hitting too close to home?
- I am nothing like you.
- Oh. I think you are.
I think you would have
killed me back there if
I hadn't drawn my knife.
- I saw it in your eyes.
- Yeah. and you would have
liked that. right?
I want to know.
how does it feel.
to know that it's because
of you that all these people
are dead?
Oh. I will not own that. Connor!
- You did this!
- [chuckles] That's...
That's what I thought you'd say.
Right here. number three:
"Little or no compassion
or guilt."
If you're gonna kill me.
just pull the trigger!
Is that what you want?
Pull the trigger!
You want me to?
Because I will!
No. you won't. because that
was never part of your plan!
You were never gonna kill me.
I knew you'd understand.
Yeah.
Because if I kill you.
then I'm just as crazy
as you are. right?
That's been your plan.
It would be
better than suicide.
Come on.
Suzanne. do it.
I know you want to.
And no one will know.
It'll be between
you and I.
You could say
it was self defense.
Come on. End it.
Get on your knees.
Get on your knees!
[breathing deeply]
I just wanted you
to take the pain away.
I know.
I love you. Suzanne.
[gun fires]
You don't deserve to die.
[down-tempo rock music playing]
* Darlin'. darlin'
Where the waves should fall *
* Fondly on the shore
* As I lie in the sand alone
* Where I call my own
* Can I walk
* Walk beside you
* The day when all the fears
come true *
[door clangs shut]
Hey. Alice.
You know the rules.
No passing any personal items.
[lock beeps]
And keep your hands
where I can see them.
[buzzer rings]
- [Suzanne] Mom.
- [door clangs shut]
[Alice] If you say so.
It's Suzanne.
I wrote you off
a long time ago.
I'm sure you did.
To tell you the truth. I've
spent my entire life trying
to write you off as well.
but... I just can't.
Well. you should.
What do I care?
You shouldn't.
I've been a horrible daughter.
I haven't come to visit
you once in 25 years.
and you're my mother.
Hell of a mother I've been.
You have been an
enormous part of my life.
More than you will ever know.
I'm sorry.
Don't be.
It's who I am.
It's actually why
I'm here today.
I. um.... I wanted
to open this in front of you.
It's my Psychopathy
Test results.
It's going to tell me
whether or not I'm like you.
You need a test
to tell you that?
I've spent my
entire life terrified
that I am some
ticking time bomb.
because I am your daughter.
Not a big believer
in free will. huh?
You think I couldn't
control what I did?
[scoffs] Now you're gonna
try to make me feel guilty
for your miserable life?
That's rich.
[chuckles] Look at me.
Ask me if I care.
I'm gonna be OK.
Big surprise.
Maybe I'll see you next week.
No. don't bother.
I will see you next week. Mom.
[panting]
[laughing]
[cheering]
- Oh. this is horrible.
- Oh. my God.
This is so bad.
- It's horrible.
- How's your leg?
It's pretty good.
Gives me an excuse
for losing. so that's good.
[laughing] You are such
a bad loser.
Oh. Hey.
[clears throat]
Ask me.
It's... it's a standing offer.
you know that.
Just ask me.
Be careful. don't...
[laughing] don't hurt your leg!
It's OK.
Suzanne...
...will you marry me?
Yes.
[rock music playing]
* Who are you and
what have you done? *
* I don't see the pressure
behind the one *
* Who's taking over
and has begun *
* To open up my heart
* Seen you lately
walkin' about *
* I've been trying to figure
this whole thing out *
* How did you get
into my heart *
* And where did
this all start? *
* I don't know how
to resolve this *
* I have no idea
about the memory of this *
* How did you find out
all about this *
* Is there something
I missed? *
* Oh. where are you
* Hiding now?
* There in the distance
* Staring at me
* While you find a place
* To cast away
* Your spell on me
* Spell on me
* Spell on me. me. me. me
* There's no place
safe from you *
* You come right
out of the blue *
* And there is no
hiding place *
* That could keep me away
* There's danger
lurking around *
* I try to stay cautious
* But there isn't a sound
* And the sounds
I tend to hear *
* Are only in my mind
* It's hard to forget
about it *
* When I'm sitting
in front of you *
* Shouting at it
* The spider web forming
* This heavenly net
* Oh. where are you
* Hiding now?
* There in the distance
* Staring at me
* While you find a place
* To cast away
* Your spell on me
* Spell on me
* Spell on me. me. me. me